# Description
This was the final project for one of my computer science elective courses, Introduction to Multimedia Computing (CSCI 4353). It's a YouTube Data API frontend demonstration made in PyQt5. It's not meant to be a regularly used program, but rather to demonstrate a few things that the YouTube Data API v3 is capable of within the context of a modern GUI design library, PyQt5.

# Major Features
- Works for all YouTube channels.
- Displays channel profile art.
- Displays channel views, likes, and subscribers, location, and description.
- Displays the most popular recent video (out of the last ten videos).
-- Video title
-- View count
-- Like count
-- Thumbnail art
-- _Can download the audio of this video (thanks to yt_dlp)_

# How to Use:
Using this program is simple. All you need is a YouTube channel's channel ID. Copy and paste this channel ID into the text box in the program. The information for that YouTube channel will be displayed.

The download button below can be clicked to download that video's audio. It'll download to the same directory as the application's executable.

## Simple Method to Find YouTube Channel ID
- Navigate to a YouTube channel's home page.
- Copy and paste that URL into this site: https://commentpicker.com/youtube-channel-id.php
- After you complete the captcha, the channel ID should be displayed.

## Alternative Method to Find YouTube Channel ID
In the rare case you have issues with the above method, this method is more reliable, though slightly more complex.

- Go to your desired YouTube channel's homepage.
- Inspect element in your browser (for example, press F12 in Google Chrome).
- In the source code, search for "channelid" (make sure the source code is in focus and press ctrl + F).
- It likely won't come up; _this is normal_. Refresh the page, and search for it again.
- The channel id will show up.

# Executable Generation
Before you can convert a .py file into a standalone .exe file, you need to ensure that PyInstaller is installed in your Python virtual environment. You can do this by simply running this command:

    pip install pyinstaller

PyInstaller has many options, but a working executable for this program can be generated by using this command:

    pyinstaller --onefile --windowed --name "youtube-data-api-frontend" frontend.py

The "dist" folder contains the new executable; its name is what is specified in quotations in the command. Lastly, ensure the .env file is in the same directory as the new executable. This has the API key needed for the program to work correctly.

Documentation for PyInstaller:
https://pyinstaller.org/en/stable/usage.html

# API Key Generation
In order to use this application, you must have a .env file containing an API key in the same directory as that executable. I'm not sharing my API key. However, this guide can show you how to do generate your own.

*Only steps 2 and 3 are necessary*.
https://developers.google.com/youtube/v3/getting-started

Once you generate it, paste the key and variable declaration in the .env file and save. The program is now completely ready to be used!

    API_KEY=api_key_goes_here

# Known Bugs:
- For some reason, on some computers, the program may crash after clicking the download button (the audio still downloads fine). Just open the application again to use it again.

